Brother Thomas Kalimeris,
who serves at the United States branch,
together with his wife,
has spent close to four decades
supporting various aspects
of the organization’s construction projects.
What has that experience taught him?
That the work is not run by us.
Throughout history, men have built
many beautiful and impressive buildings.
These structures
have usually brought glory to men,
not to God.
But those men are long gone,
and even many of the structures
no longer exist.
How true is the scripture at Psalm 127:1:
“Unless Jehovah builds the house,
it is in vain
that its builders work hard on it.”
In our time too,
Jehovah is using his people to build.
We’re working hard
to build spirituality in interested ones,
and also we build structures
in order to help individuals to learn
about Jehovah and serve him.
In this type of construction
—both spiritual and physical construction—
I’ve been involved for most of my life.
I was born in Greece.
Our family came into contact
with the truth in the early sixties.
I was baptized when I was in high school.
I left school to get
some practical training in architecture,
but I made pioneering my career.
In 1973,
I married my dear wife, Margaret,
and together
we enjoyed many assignments.
We pioneered
—special pioneering.
We went to Gilead.
We were invited to Bethel
in 1979 to work
in the Engineering Department.
We worked on designing new branches,
Assembly Halls, Kingdom Halls,
renovation of existing branches
and remote translation offices.
Before we came to Bethel, we had seen how
Jehovah provided for us individually.
But now we had the opportunity
to see how Jehovah provided
for the needs of his organization globally.
By the year 2000,
it became apparent that the present facility
of the Britain branch
was not meeting their needs.
So a site was located
50 miles (80 km) north of London
to relocate the branch there.
However,
the Governing Body
decided to cancel the project.
So in 2008,
the Governing Body wrote
that now is the time
—Jehovah’s time—
to find property
closer to London.
So a project team was formed,
and a few years went by,
and a number of properties were searched,
and one was located closer to London.
If something we plan falls through,
it could mean
that Jehovah has something else
—or better— in mind to meet
the needs of his organization.
While working in the Haiti branch,
we learned a lesson:
not to compromise on safety.
The Brooklyn Engineering Department
did the drawings for the branch,
and a local contractor was hired
to build the structural work.
Now, the contractor,
when he reviewed the drawings,
told the Branch Committee:
“Really, this is overdesigned.
You’re wasting a lot of money
by putting all the steel in the building.”
So we wrote back and said:
“No, the drawings are OK.
“The branch is designed
according to the seismic zone that it’s in.
And the contractor is to go ahead
with the plans as drawn.”
In 2010,
when the earthquake came to Haiti,
hundreds of thousands of people died
because of inferior materials
and methods of construction.
However,
the branch did not suffer any damage,
and many people went there to find refuge.
We’re so glad that Jehovah did not allow us
to be swayed in this case.
Jehovah continues to direct
a great physical building work
and a spiritual work.
Jehovah trains his people
how to work together
for the work just ahead of us
—the beautification of this earth
to a paradise.
It is so important that we
‘trust in Jehovah
and not to lean
upon our own understanding.’
A life of building with Jehovah
has shown me the wisdom of Psalm 127:1.
If we keep building our lives with Jehovah,
our building work will never be in vain.